# WP2 - One Health Knowledge Base

This WP aims at the creation of the “OH Knowledge Base” - a cross-domain inventory of public / veterinary health data sources, methods / algorithms / tools and best practice solutions that support integrated OH surveillance data generation, data analysis and interpretation. 
WP2 is subdivided into three interdisciplinary sub-WP2s: WP2-Epi, WP2-NGS and WP2-Integration. The latter will ensure synergistic developments between all these WP2s. All WP2s will perform their work synchronized in time:
In the first task, all sub-WP2s will carry out a requirement analysis based on a literature review, a questionnaire survey and/or expert interviews. The results will be used to create inventories on currently available data sources, methods / algorithms / tools for data generation, data analysis and interpretation. Each WP2 carries out this work with a specific scope thus guaranteeing a complete coverage of current available resources: WP2-Epi will focus on “classical” and “associated” surveillance data, WP2-NGS on NextGen analytical data and WP2-Integration on current OH integration approaches. Inventories generated in this task also cover current best practice guidelines and recommendations on how to use available resources. Finally, each WP2 will carry out a gap analysis to identify missing resources hindering the implementation of OH integration and harmonization solutions. 
The generated OH Knowledge Base will provide information on surveillance data of both public and veterinary health, as well as food and feed. Diseases covered will be at least the following:  Salmonella, Toxoplasma, Listeria, Campylobacter, VTEC/EHEC, Cryptosporidium. Furthermore, resources relevant for integrated OH surveillance on antimicrobial resistance (AMR) will be integrated.  This will also contribute to the implementation of ECDC’s roadmap v2.1 for the integration of molecular typing for European-level surveillance.
The OH Knowledge base will contain meta-information on:

* available data sources (e.g. public health data, veterinary health data, data on anti-microbial consumption (AMC), food & feed consumption, food & feed processing, socio-demographics / population dynamics, transport / trade / migration etc.) 

* methods / algorithms for data management and integration 

* methods / approaches for data analysis and interpretation 

For reasons of clarity: It is beyond the scope of ORION to create new integrated data sources itself. This will only be accomplished on pilot scale level during some of the OH pilot studies carried out. The primary ORION goal is to create a community-driven web-based OH Knowledge Hub of best practise solutions for harmonized OH surveillance (see task 4.3)
The inventory generated by WP2-NGS will also contain best practices for data management and data handling approaches for data from emerging bacterial identification techniques (e.g. data from NGS, metagenomics, NMR, MALDI TOF etc.). To facilitate support to and synergies with other EJP projects the main focus within WP2-NGS will however be on NGS data. This WP will also provide current experiences on practical issues such as data storage capacity, data exchange capacity, bioinformatics expertise, data exchange platforms, harmonised terminology etc. 
The second task for all WP2s is to adapt and possibly improve resources according to the WPs specific OH surveillance data analyses needs. In a joint ORION prioritization workshop (M13) a “OH surveillance resource development plan” will be defined. This plan will detail and synchronize the work that is to be carried out in WP1, WP2 and WP3 during this task. The partners will agree on the specific development goals and OH topics addressed within ORION.  The synchronization of WP2 developments will be organized by WP2-Integration. New or improved resources will be integrated into the corresponding WP2 inventories.
In the third task each WP2 will carry out OH pilot studies. These OH pilot studies will demonstrate that the resources generated during the second task are practically applicable and generate the expected added value. Where appropriate these OH pilots will support the evaluation of resources developed by other WPs, e.g. WP1 or WP3, and may also work closely with other EJP projects. Finally, each WP2 will make necessary adjustments to their developed resources and update the “OH surveillance resource development plan”. Each WP2 will integrate generated resources into their OH Knowledge Base which then become part of the “ORION Knowledge Hub” maintained by WP4. Throughout the duration of the project all WP2s will use workshops organized by WP4 to train other EJP projects and stakeholders and disseminate their knowledge. WP2-Integration will further support the development of the “Sustainability Roadmap” by WP4 in order to secure continued implementation and adoption of the “OH surveillance resource development plan” created by WP2.